README.md, before:

[Gabriel][repo]’s dotfiles
==========================

These are the base dotfiles that I start with when I set up
a new environment (for more specific local needs I use the
[`*.local`](#local-settings) files).

🛠 Setup
--------

To set up the dotfiles run the appropriate snippet in the terminal:

(⚠️  **DO NOT** run the `setup` snippet if you do not fully understand
[what it does][setup]. Seriously, **DON'T**!)

| OS | Snippet |
|:---|:---|
| macOS | `bash -c "$(curl -LsS https://raw.github.com/gabrielfreiberg/dotfiles/main/src/os/setup.sh)"` |
| Ubuntu | `bash -c "$(wget -qO - https://raw.github.com/gabrielfreiberg/dotfiles/main/src/os/setup.sh)"` |

That's it! ✨ Almost.

The setup process will:

* Download the dotfiles on your computer
  (by default it will suggest `~/projects/dotfiles`).
* Create some additional [directories][dirs].
* [Symlink][symlink] the [Git][git], [shell][shell],
  and [Vim][vim] files.
* Install applications / command-line tools for
  [macOS][install macos] / [Ubuntu][install ubuntu].
* Set custom [macOS][preferences macos] /
  [Ubuntu][preferences ubuntu] preferences.
* Install the [Vim][vim plugins] and [VS Code][vscode plugins] plugins.

Setup process in action:

| ![Setup process on macOS][setup macos] | ![Setup process on Ubuntu][setup ubuntu] |
|:---:|:---:|
| macOS | Ubuntu |

After the first run, make sure to add your ssh key to:

1. [Add ssh key to ssh-agent](https://docs.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/generating-a-new-ssh-key-and-adding-it-to-the-ssh-agent)
2. Manually install some apps that aren't in here yet, like spotify.

🎨 Customize
------------

### 🌐 Local Settings

The dotfiles can be easily extended to suit additional local
requirements by using the following files:

#### 🐚 `~/.bash.local`

The `~/.bash.local` file will be automatically sourced after all
the other [Bash related files][shell], thus, allowing its content
to add to or overwrite the existing aliases, settings, `PATH`, etc.

Here is an example:


```shell
#!/bin/bash

# - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

# Set PATH additions.

PATH="/Users/gabriel/projects/dotfiles/src/bin/:$PATH"

export PATH

# - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

# Set local aliases.

alias g="git"
```

#### 🔁 `~/.gitconfig.local`

The `~/.gitconfig.local` file will be automatically included after
the configurations from `~/.gitconfig`, thus, allowing its content
to overwrite or add to the existing Git configurations.

__Note:__ Use `~/.gitconfig.local` to store sensitive information
such as the Git user credentials, e.g.:

```gitconfig
[commit]

    # Sign commits using GPG.
    # https://help.github.com/articles/signing-commits-using-gpg/

    gpgSign = true

[user]

    name = Cătălin Mariș
    email = account@example.com
    signingKey = XXXXXXXX
```

#### ⌨️  `~/.vimrc.local`

The `~/.vimrc.local` file will be automatically sourced after
`~/.vimrc`, thus, allowing its content to add or overwrite the
settings from `~/.vimrc`.

Here is an example:

```vim
" Disable arrow keys in insert mode.

inoremap <Down>  <ESC>:echoe "Use j"<CR>
inoremap <Left>  <ESC>:echoe "Use h"<CR>
inoremap <Right> <ESC>:echoe "Use l"<CR>
inoremap <Up>    <ESC>:echoe "Use k"<CR>

" Disable arrow keys in normal mode.

nnoremap <Down>  :echoe "Use j"<CR>
nnoremap <Left>  :echoe "Use h"<CR>
nnoremap <Right> :echoe "Use l"<CR>
nnoremap <Up>    :echoe "Use k"<CR>
```

### 🔀 Forks

If you decide to [fork] this project, do not forget to substitute
my username with your own in the [`setup` snippets](#setup) and
[in the `setup` script][setup script].

↕️  Update
---------

To update the dotfiles you can either run the [`setup` script][setup]
or, if you want to update one particular part, run the appropriate
[`os` script](src/os).

📸 Screenshots
--------------

### 🔁 Git

Output for `git status`:

| ![Output for Git status on macOS][git output macos] | ![Output for Git status on Ubuntu][git output ubuntu] |
|:---:|:---:|
| macOS | Ubuntu |

Output for `git log`:

| ![Output for Git log on macOS][git log macos] | ![Output for Git log on Ubuntu][git log ubuntu] |
|:---:|:---:|
| macOS | Ubuntu |

### ⌨️  tmux & Vim

| ![tmux and Vim on macOS][vim macos] | ![tmux and Vim on Ubuntu][vim ubuntu] |
|:---:|:---:|
| macOS | Ubuntu |

📑 License
----------

The code is available under the [MIT license][license].

Forked from alrra

<!-- Link labels: -->

[ci badge macos]: https://github.com/gabrielfreiberg/dotfiles/workflows/macOS/badge.svg
[ci badge ubuntu]: https://github.com/gabrielfreiberg/dotfiles/workflows/Ubuntu/badge.svg
[ci link macos]: https://github.com/gabrielfreiberg/dotfiles/actions?query=workflow%3AmacOS
[ci link ubuntu]: https://github.com/gabrielfreiberg/dotfiles/actions?query=workflow%3AUbuntu
[dirs]: src/os/create_directories.sh
[fork]: https://help.github.com/en/github/getting-started-with-github/fork-a-repo
[git log macos]: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1223565/101947422-519fc580-3ba5-11eb-90bc-1438072a45e1.png
[git log ubuntu]: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1223565/101947420-51072f00-3ba5-11eb-9061-efb30ace1c21.png
[git output macos]: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1223565/101947419-51072f00-3ba5-11eb-9e8e-fea987ac97c2.png
[git output ubuntu]: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1223565/101947417-506e9880-3ba5-11eb-805c-0732602c34b3.png
[git]: src/git
[install macos]: src/os/install/macos
[install ubuntu]: src/os/install/ubuntu
[license]: LICENSE.txt
[preferences macos]: src/os/preferences/macos
[preferences ubuntu]: src/os/preferences/ubuntu
[repo]: https://github.com/gabrielfreiberg
[setup macos]: https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/1223565/19314446/cd89a592-90a2-11e6-948d-9d75247088ba.gif
[setup script]: https://github.com/gabrielfreiberg/dotfiles/blob/2f53485df6be75d207d4c5c03c265730b416555a/src/os/setup.sh#L3
[setup ubuntu]: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1223565/101978032-d0791a80-3c06-11eb-8870-661d0eb3f543.gif
[setup]: src/os/setup.sh
[shell]: src/shell
[symlink]: src/os/create_symbolic_links.sh
[vim macos]: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1223565/101947425-52385c00-3ba5-11eb-9a2a-13e7910d3673.png
[vim plugins]: src/vim/vim/pack/minpac/start
[vim ubuntu]: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1223565/101947424-519fc580-3ba5-11eb-83b1-e4c3573315a3.png
[vim]: src/vim
[vscode plugins]: src/os/install/macos/vscode.sh

Commit message:

Adds an init folder for Library/Application Support or Library/Preferences stuff; spectacle and iterm inits; readme adjustments

README.md, after:

[Gabriel][repo]’s dotfiles
==========================

These are the base dotfiles that I start with when I set up
a new environment (for more specific local needs I use the
[`*.local`](#local-settings) files).

🛠 Setup
--------

To set up the dotfiles run the appropriate snippet in the terminal:

(⚠️  **DO NOT** run the `setup` snippet if you do not fully understand
[what it does][setup]. Seriously, **DON'T**!)

| OS | Snippet |
|:---|:---|
| macOS | `bash -c "$(curl -LsS https://raw.github.com/gabrielfreiberg/dotfiles/main/src/os/setup.sh)"` |
| Ubuntu | `bash -c "$(wget -qO - https://raw.github.com/gabrielfreiberg/dotfiles/main/src/os/setup.sh)"` |

That's it! ✨ Almost.

The setup process will:

* Download the dotfiles on your computer
  (by default it will suggest `~/projects/dotfiles`).
* Create some additional [directories][dirs].
* [Symlink][symlink] the [Git][git], [shell][shell],
  and [Vim][vim] files.
* Install applications / command-line tools for
  [macOS][install macos] / [Ubuntu][install ubuntu].
* Set custom [macOS][preferences macos] /
  [Ubuntu][preferences ubuntu] preferences.
* Install the [Vim][vim plugins] and [VS Code][vscode plugins] plugins.

Setup process in action:

| ![Setup process on macOS][setup macos] | ![Setup process on Ubuntu][setup ubuntu] |
|:---:|:---:|
| macOS | Ubuntu |

### Manual Steps

After the first run, make sure to add your ssh key to:

1. [Add passphrase to ssh-agent](https://docs.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/generating-a-new-ssh-key-and-adding-it-to-the-ssh-agent)
2. Manually install some apps that aren't in here yet, like spotify.
3. iTerm2 should load preferences from custom folder and save changes when quitting
4. Launch spectacle at login

🎨 Customize
------------

### 🌐 Local Settings

The dotfiles can be easily extended to suit additional local
requirements by using the following files:

#### 🐚 `~/.bash.local`

The `~/.bash.local` file will be automatically sourced after all
the other [Bash related files][shell], thus, allowing its content
to add to or overwrite the existing aliases, settings, `PATH`, etc.

Here is an example:


```shell
#!/bin/bash

# - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

# Set PATH additions.

PATH="/Users/gabriel/projects/dotfiles/src/bin/:$PATH"

export PATH

# - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

# Set local aliases.

alias g="git"
```

#### 🔁 `~/.gitconfig.local`

The `~/.gitconfig.local` file will be automatically included after
the configurations from `~/.gitconfig`, thus, allowing its content
to overwrite or add to the existing Git configurations.

__Note:__ Use `~/.gitconfig.local` to store sensitive information
such as the Git user credentials, e.g.:

```gitconfig
[commit]

    # Sign commits using GPG.
    # https://help.github.com/articles/signing-commits-using-gpg/

    gpgSign = true

[user]

    name = Cătălin Mariș
    email = account@example.com
    signingKey = XXXXXXXX
```

#### ⌨️  `~/.vimrc.local`

The `~/.vimrc.local` file will be automatically sourced after
`~/.vimrc`, thus, allowing its content to add or overwrite the
settings from `~/.vimrc`.

Here is an example:

```vim
" Disable arrow keys in insert mode.

inoremap <Down>  <ESC>:echoe "Use j"<CR>
inoremap <Left>  <ESC>:echoe "Use h"<CR>
inoremap <Right> <ESC>:echoe "Use l"<CR>
inoremap <Up>    <ESC>:echoe "Use k"<CR>

" Disable arrow keys in normal mode.

nnoremap <Down>  :echoe "Use j"<CR>
nnoremap <Left>  :echoe "Use h"<CR>
nnoremap <Right> :echoe "Use l"<CR>
nnoremap <Up>    :echoe "Use k"<CR>
```

### 🔀 Forks

If you decide to [fork] this project, do not forget to substitute
my username with your own in the [`setup` snippets](#setup) and
[in the `setup` script][setup script].

↕️  Update
---------

To update the dotfiles you can either run the [`setup` script][setup]
or, if you want to update one particular part, run the appropriate
[`os` script](src/os).

📸 Screenshots
--------------

### 🔁 Git

Output for `git status`:

| ![Output for Git status on macOS][git output macos] | ![Output for Git status on Ubuntu][git output ubuntu] |
|:---:|:---:|
| macOS | Ubuntu |

Output for `git log`:

| ![Output for Git log on macOS][git log macos] | ![Output for Git log on Ubuntu][git log ubuntu] |
|:---:|:---:|
| macOS | Ubuntu |

### ⌨️  tmux & Vim

| ![tmux and Vim on macOS][vim macos] | ![tmux and Vim on Ubuntu][vim ubuntu] |
|:---:|:---:|
| macOS | Ubuntu |

📑 License
----------

The code is available under the [MIT license][license].

🙇‍♂️ Thank you
---------

Inspiration and outright theft of these great dotfiles:

* alrra
* paulirish
* mathiasbynens

<!-- Link labels: -->

[ci badge macos]: https://github.com/gabrielfreiberg/dotfiles/workflows/macOS/badge.svg
[ci badge ubuntu]: https://github.com/gabrielfreiberg/dotfiles/workflows/Ubuntu/badge.svg
[ci link macos]: https://github.com/gabrielfreiberg/dotfiles/actions?query=workflow%3AmacOS
[ci link ubuntu]: https://github.com/gabrielfreiberg/dotfiles/actions?query=workflow%3AUbuntu
[dirs]: src/os/create_directories.sh
[fork]: https://help.github.com/en/github/getting-started-with-github/fork-a-repo
[git log macos]: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1223565/101947422-519fc580-3ba5-11eb-90bc-1438072a45e1.png
[git log ubuntu]: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1223565/101947420-51072f00-3ba5-11eb-9061-efb30ace1c21.png
[git output macos]: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1223565/101947419-51072f00-3ba5-11eb-9e8e-fea987ac97c2.png
[git output ubuntu]: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1223565/101947417-506e9880-3ba5-11eb-805c-0732602c34b3.png
[git]: src/git
[install macos]: src/os/install/macos
[install ubuntu]: src/os/install/ubuntu
[license]: LICENSE.txt
[preferences macos]: src/os/preferences/macos
[preferences ubuntu]: src/os/preferences/ubuntu
[repo]: https://github.com/gabrielfreiberg
[setup macos]: https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/1223565/19314446/cd89a592-90a2-11e6-948d-9d75247088ba.gif
[setup script]: https://github.com/gabrielfreiberg/dotfiles/blob/2f53485df6be75d207d4c5c03c265730b416555a/src/os/setup.sh#L3
[setup ubuntu]: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1223565/101978032-d0791a80-3c06-11eb-8870-661d0eb3f543.gif
[setup]: src/os/setup.sh
[shell]: src/shell
[symlink]: src/os/create_symbolic_links.sh
[vim macos]: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1223565/101947425-52385c00-3ba5-11eb-9a2a-13e7910d3673.png
[vim plugins]: src/vim/vim/pack/minpac/start
[vim ubuntu]: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1223565/101947424-519fc580-3ba5-11eb-83b1-e4c3573315a3.png
[vim]: src/vim
[vscode plugins]: src/os/install/macos/vscode.sh
